- [Instructor] Property files are the bread and butter
of Spring Boot applications.
Learning how to enhance your property files
by using Spring Boot profiles
is an absolute necessity
when staging your projects for various environments.
We'll be using the source code
in Chapter_01, 01_02_begin, SpringBootProduction.
When you're ready, click Open.
Next, in the terminal window at the bottom,
we'll go ahead and clean and build the project.
We'll do this by typing ./gradlew clean build.
And hit Enter.
This may take a few minutes
the first time you build the project.
Next, in the same terminal window,
we'll run it by typing java -jar build/libs
and then tab over for the application name .jar.
Hit Enter.
With the project running,
let's go ahead and open a Chrome tab.
And type in localhost:8080 and hit Enter.
As you can see here,
we have a basic web application
that greets us with a message Wisdom Pet Medicines default.
We're going to alter this in a moment
and I'm going to show you
how to access the environment profile that's set.
Keep in mind, this is for demonstration purposes only
to see the environment profile.
We would not want to display this in production.
Now, if we go back to our terminal window,
scroll to the top,
we'll notice that the default profile set is listed here.
What this means is Spring cannot detect an environment
that you may have set
and so if no profile is active,
a default profile is enabled.
The name of the default profile is default.
And it can be set using spring.profiles.active
with the environment property of the application at startup.
Currently, this project does not have
an environment-specific configuration.
Keeping in mind that our applications
must be environment configurable
for lifecycle development processes
in development, user testing and production deployment.
Let's go ahead and apply some environment-specific profiles.
Going over to the MainController,
we'll type @Autowired.
Hit Enter.
Private Environment.
Env.
The Environment object represents the environment
in which the current application is running
and will allow us to track
what environment profile we have set.
Now, you'll notice that we've defaulted the model attribute
to a key-value pair of env and default.
We'll change the env to environments
and the attributeValue to env.getActiveProfiles.
This method returns an array,
so let's go to our index.html
and you'll notice that we've already pre-populated the code
for iterating over that array object of environments.
What we want to do though is go ahead
and delete this line right here.
I'll save that.
Let's go down to the command line.
Control + C, we'll type gradlew clean build again.
Now we'll follow this with the appropriate Spring profile.
So we have java -jar -Dspring.profiles.active equals dev.
We'll give the location of our application, build/libs.
We'll tab over to get the full name, .jar.
Hit Enter.
We'll go ahead and go back to our Chrome tab
and we'll refresh.
And as you can tell, it now says Wisdom Pet Medicines dev.
We'll go back again
and this time we'll change it
to spring.profiles.active equals prod.
Hit Enter.
We'll go back and refresh again.
And now it's changed to prod.
Okay, let's make another change
because we can load different sets of property files based
on the name appended to the property file.
So going back to our application source code,
we'll go to application.properties
and we're going to enter a new property.
We'll type corporate.name equals Wisdom.
We'll save that
and then we're going to copy our property file
and add it again.
We'll paste this.
And for the next one, we'll type dev.
We'll click OK.
We'll say here in this properties file,
it's Wisdom Dev.
We'll add another one.
Paste it and call this one -qa.
Click OK.
Change the file here to QA.
And we'll paste one more time for production.
Application-prod.properties.
And we'll change this to Prod.
Again, this is for demonstration purposes only.
Next, let's go back to our index.html.
Go to the Wisdom inside of the h1
and we'll wrap this with a span tag
using a Thymeleaf text attribute.
Dollar sign, curly bracket,
and we're going to give this corporateName in camel case.
We'll finish wrapping it with span.
Save that.
And then go to our MainController.
And this time, we'll add an @Value
and reference the particular properties file.
Corporate.name.
We'll give this a private String corporateName.
Scroll down to our model attribute.
Model.addAttribute.
Specify the attribute name of corporateName.
And then referencing the string value of corporateName.
Don't forget to add your semicolon.
With that done, let's clean and build.
And we'll rerun the project using the dev profile.
Hit Enter.
We'll go back to our Tomcat instance.
We will refresh again.
Now as you can tell, we have Wisdom Dev,
Pet Medicines dev.
Let's try it again with one other profile.
Control + C.
This time we'll change it to qa.
Hit Enter.
Allow it to run.
Go back, we'll refresh it again.
And now it's changed to QA.
Okay, so this gives environment properties
that are externalized, testable
and environment-specific by running the application JAR
with the spring.profiles.active environment variable.
The other nice feature here
is that we only have to put environment-specific variables
in property files that matter.
The default property files,
which is the application.properties,
should carry non-environment specific features
that affect all environments.
For example, if we're looking at the application.properties,
we could add a logo.title
and give this the name Wisdom Pet Medical Clinic.
We could save it.
We'll go to our MainController.
We'll add another @value statement.
Inside of it, we'll specify curly brackets for logo.title.
We'll give it a private String logoTitle in camel case.
And then we'll add this to the model attribute.
logoTitle referencing the string object logoTitle.
If we go back to our index.html,
this time let's change the title tag.
We'll use the Thymeleaf text attribute.
And we'll specify this to use
logoTitle.
We'll save it.
We'll come down.
Hit Control + C.
We'll build the application.
And when it's done building,
we'll execute it with the QA profile and hit Enter.
With the QA profile selected,
it should be using the application-qa properties.
However, because we put this in the default properties,
it will affect all profiles.
Wisdom Pet Medical Clinic.